Course 1 - week 2

establishing data mining goals
1. setup goals for an exercise , questions that need to be ans
2. going beyond questions that need to be ans, questioning the cost efficiency 
3. determine in advance the expected level of accuracy and usefullness of the results obtained from data mining
4. cost benifit trade off is crucial in determining goals and scope of DM exercise.
5. level of accuracy also influences the cost.

selecting data
1. Output largely depends upon the level of data used
2. 2 types of data are available
	strctured data - readily available data - customer purchase demographic information given by retailers.
	unstrctured data
3. type of data, its size, frequency of collectiom have direct bearing on the cost of DM exercise.

Processing data
1. raw data is messy containing erroneus or irrelevant data. 
2. in pre-processing stage identify irrelevant attributes of data and remove that from consideration.
3. develop a formal method of dealing with missed data and determine if the data are missing randomly or systematically
4. simple set of solutions would suffice if the data is missing randomly.
5. if the data missing systematically you have to determine the impact of missing data on the results.
6. for example - if whatever data is missing is included in your search parameters then the model becomes absolute.

Transforming data
1. transforming data essential to recude the number of attributes to explain data.
2. to do this we require data reduction algorithms (principle component analysis algo) , can reduce the number of attributes preserving the significance of data.
3. variables may need to be transfrmed to help with the data being analysed.
4. transform data type of one value to another.

storing data
1. transformed data must be stored in a format that makes it conductive for data mining.
2. Data must be stored in a format that gives unrestricted and immdetiate read/write previleges to data scientist.
3. storing data should facilitate efficiency reading from and writing to database
4. data safety and privacy key concerns for storing data.

Mining data
1. this step coveres data analysis methods including parametic and non-parametic methods and machine learning algos.
2. multi-dimentional views of data using advanced graphing capabilities of data mining software are helpful in developing a preliminary understanding of the hidden trends of data.

Evaluating mining results 
1. Formal evaluation could include testing the predictive capabilities of models on observed data to see how effetive and efficient the algos have been in repoducing the data.
2. Data mining and evaluating the results becomes an iterative process to improve analysis process.

